Performance tests

The tests in this directory and its subdirectories provide some sets
of tests which vary primarily in size but are constant or nearly so in
other respects.

They do not contribute at all to testing the completeness or
correctness of implementations; they are intended only to provide
simple tests of how performance is affected by longer inputs for
various grammars.

The *a-star* directory contains multiple variations on the grammar

    S = 'a'*.

The grammar just given is ten characters long (including a newline
after the full stop); variations are made by inserting whitespace and
comments, either at the beginning or between adjacent tokens, either
whitespace only or single long comments or many short comments.  One
series of variations creates versions of the grammar of size 100,
1000, and 10 000 characters; another series doubles the size each time
(so: 10, 20, 40, ... 10240 characters).

The inputs similarly grow by either a factor of ten or by a factor of
two.  For positive tests, the expected results grow by about the same
factor: the number of nodes in the resulting XML document is constant,
so the only growth is in the size of the text node containing the
input string.

By comparing the time needed to parse different inputs, it's
possible to see whether doubling the size of the input doubles the
time needed or increases it by a larger amount.

The *evens-and-odds* directory contains a single grammar which accepts
strings consisting of

  * an even number of *a*s followed by an *e*, or
  * an odd number of *a*s followed by an *o*.

Since both possibilities are open until the last character of the
input, the grammar requires unlimited look-ahead and requires a good
deal of working memory.

The grammar requires three nodes for every two additional characters,
so the size of the XML output should be roughly proportional to the
size of the input.  The requirements for working memory (specifically,
the number of Earley items generated by an Earley parser) are expected
to grow faster than that (although this has not yet been checked).

